README.md, before:

# Wanikani Flashcards

A LaTeX package and bash script for producing flashcard sets from .csv files generated by Wanikani Item inspector. This repo also has pre-built pdfs of all Wanikani kanji organized in sets of 10 levels, as well as the first 20 levels of vocabulary, one level per file, plus a set of recent leeches of mine. If you want leech cards for yourself you'll have to build your own ;)

## Features

- Generates pdf files with 15 cards per page on letter paper.
- Works with either lists of kanji, vocabulary, radicals or any combination. 
- Kanji cards print kanji in larger font size so you can distinguish vocabulary from kanji cards of the same character -- readings are usually different after all!
- Kanji readings are written in katakana, which, while not strictly accurate for all kanji since not all of them have on'yomi readings, at least will give you practice reading katakana. This can be changed by a simple edit of the makecards.sh file (indicated in a comment in that file).
- Radicals are rendered in light gray larger characters. Some non-standard radicals on Wanikani are images, and those will end up with blank card fronts -- you have to draw those yourself :P


## Requirements

- LaTeX packages:
  - xeCJK
  - ctexhook
  - nopageno
  - multicol
  - anyfontsize
  - hyperref
  - tcolorbox
  - etoolbox
  - pdfpages
- xelatex
- standard Linux utilities such as sed, awk, grep
- .csv files downloaded from Wanikani Item Insepector with the following settings
	- tables > export > cell separator > comma
	- tables > export > use of quotes > only when needed
	- tables > export > exported column 1 > reading brief
	- tables > export > exported column 2 > item
	- tables > export > exported column 3 > meaning brief
	- tables > export > exported column 4 > item type

- NOTE: will now also work with tab, or semicolon separated cells, as well as with tables > export > use of quotes > always





## How to use

- Copy .csv files to wanikani-flashcards directory and then run `./makecards.sh filename.csv`
- For a4 paper run `./makecards.sh filename.csv a4`

## Bug reports and contributions

- Please let me know if you run into any problems!
- Also feel free to contribute your own build script for other operating systems.

Commit message:

rewrite script, add comments use on/kun readings

README.md, after:

# Wanikani Flashcards

A LaTeX package and bash script for producing flashcard sets from .csv files generated by Wanikani Item inspector. This repo also has pre-built pdfs of all Wanikani kanji organized in sets of 10 levels, as well as the first 20 levels of vocabulary, one level per file, plus a set of recent leeches of mine. If you want leech cards for yourself you'll have to build your own ;)

## Features

- Generates pdf files with 15 cards per page on letter paper.
- Works with either lists of kanji, vocabulary, radicals or any combination. 
- Kanji cards print kanji in larger font size so you can distinguish vocabulary from kanji cards of the same character -- readings are usually different after all!
- Kanji readings are written in katakana if first reading in WK is onyomi, otherwaise hiragana.
- For all readings in hiragana, download csv files with only 4 fields -- see below.
- Radicals are rendered in light gray larger characters. Some non-standard radicals on Wanikani are images, and those will end up with blank card fronts -- you have to draw those yourself :P
- Backs of cards are printed in lighter color which makes less likely that you will see through the card when printed on ordinary paper.
- NEW: added verbs.sh script to print only verbs -- requires exported column 5 to be "part of speech"

## Requirements

- LaTeX packages:
  - xeCJK
  - ctexhook
  - nopageno
  - multicol
  - anyfontsize
  - hyperref
  - tcolorbox
  - etoolbox
  - pdfpages
- xelatex
- standard Linux utilities such as sed, awk, grep
- .csv files downloaded from Wanikani Item Insepector with the following settings
	- tables > export > cell separator > comma
	- tables > export > use of quotes > only when needed
	- tables > export > exported column 1 > reading brief
	- tables > export > exported column 2 > item
	- tables > export > exported column 3 > meaning brief
	- tables > export > exported column 4 > item type
    - (OPTIONAL) tables > export > exported column 5 > reading by type on, kun -- if this is omitted, all reaadings will be rendered in hiragana
    - (OPTIONAL) tables > export > exported column 5 > part of speech -- before running ./makecards.sh run verbs.sh like so: `./verbs.sh myfile.csv verbs` this will output `verbs.pdf`

- NOTE: will now also work with tab, or semicolon separated cells, as well as with tables > export > use of quotes > always

## How to use

- Copy .csv files to wanikani-flashcards directory and then run `./makecards.sh filename.csv`
- For a4 paper run `./makecards.sh filename.csv a4`

## Bug reports and contributions

- Please let me know, here or on WK forum, if you run into any problems!
- Also feel free to contribute your own build script for other operating systems.
